logshipper/README.md, before:

# logshipper

A log collection agent that ships logs from the balena engine
to a downstream log aggregator.

The agent currently ships logs to the following log aggregators:
- Vector


## Usage

To use this image, create a service in your docker-compose.yml file as shown below:
```
logshipper:
    image: bh.cr/product-os/logshipper
    labels:
      io.balena.features.journal-logs: '1'
    restart: unless_stopped
    volumes:
      - logshipper:/var/lib/logshipper
```

You can also set your docker-compose.yml to build a Dockerfile.template file, and use the build variable %%BALENA_ARCH%% so that the correct image is automatically built for your device arch (see supported architectures):


*docker-compose.yml*:
```
version: "2.1"

services:
  logshipper:
    build: ./
    labels:
      io.balena.features.journal-logs: '1'
    restart: unless_stopped
    volumes:
      - logshipper:/var/lib/logshipper
```


*Dockerfile.template*
```
FROM bh.cr/product-os/logshipper:%%BALENA_ARCH%%
```


## Customisation

`balenablocks/logshipper` can be configured via the following variables:

| Environment Variable        | Default| Description                                          |
| --------------------------- | ------ | -----------------------------------------------------|
| `VECTOR_ENDPOINT`           | ``     | The endpoint of the vector log aggregator            |
| `VECTOR_TLS_CA_FILE`        | ``     | An additional CA certificate file encoded in base 64 |
| `VECTOR_VERIFY_CERTIFICATE` | `true` | Enables TLS certificate verification.                |

You can refer to the [docs](https://www.balena.io/docs/learn/manage/serv-vars/#environment-and-service-variables) on how to set environment or service variables

Alternatively, you can set them in the `docker-compose.yml` or `Dockerfile.template` files.

Commit message:

logshipper: refactor start script and fixup docs.
Change-type: patch
Signed-off-by: Carlo Miguel F. Cruz <carloc@balena.io>

logshipper/README.md, after:

# logshipper

A log collection agent that ships logs from the balena engine
to a downstream log aggregator.

The agent currently ships logs to the following log aggregators:
- [Vector][vector]


## Usage

To use this image, create a service in your `docker-compose.yml` as shown below:
```
version: "2.1"

volumes:
  logshipper: {}

logshipper:
    image: bh.cr/balena/logshipper
    labels:
      io.balena.features.journal-logs: '1'
    restart: unless_stopped
    volumes:
      - logshipper:/var/lib/logshipper
```

You can also set your docker-compose.yml to build from a Dockerfile.template file. 
You may add your own Vector sinks that takes `balena` as input.

*docker-compose.yml*:
```
version: "2.1"

volumes:
  logshipper: {}

services:
  logshipper:
    build: ./
    labels:
      io.balena.features.journal-logs: '1'
    restart: unless_stopped
    volumes:
      - logshipper:/var/lib/logshipper
```

*Dockerfile.template*
```
FROM bh.cr/balena/logshipper

COPY sink.yaml /etc/vector
```

*sink.yaml*
```
sinks:
  console:
    type: console
    inputs:
      - balena
```


## Customisation

`bh.cr/balena/logshipper` can be configured via the following variables:

| Environment Variable        | Default| Description                                          |
| --------------------------- | ------ | -----------------------------------------------------|
| `VECTOR_ENDPOINT`           | ``     | The endpoint of the vector log aggregator            |
| `VECTOR_TLS_CA_FILE`        | ``     | An additional CA certificate file encoded in base 64 |
| `VECTOR_VERIFY_CERTIFICATE` | `false` | Enables TLS certificate verification.                |

You can refer to the [docs](https://www.balena.io/docs/learn/manage/serv-vars/#environment-and-service-variables) on how to set environment or service variables

Alternatively, you can set them in the `docker-compose.yml` or `Dockerfile.template` files.

[vector]: https://vector.dev
